Let A be an _nxn_ matrix. If there is an _nxn_ matrix B such that

1. $AB = I_n$﻿
2. $BA = I_n$﻿

then A is an ==invertible== matrix and $A^{-1} = B$﻿. ($B$﻿ is invertible, too, and $B^{-1} =A$﻿)

A matrix that is _not_ invertible is sometimes called a **singular matrix,** and an invertible matrix is called a **nonsingular matrix.**

---

==**Theorem:**== Let $A = \begin {bmatrix} a & b\\c&d\end{bmatrix}$﻿ be a 2x2 matrix, and suppose $ad-bc\neq0$﻿. Then $A$﻿ is ====================invertible====================, and $A^{-1}= \frac1{ad-bc} \begin {bmatrix} d & -b \\ -c & a \end{bmatrix}$﻿.

==**If**== ==**$ad-bc =0$**==﻿==**, then**== ==**$A$**==﻿ ==**is NOT invertible.**==

> [!important]  
> The quantity @import url('https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/KaTeX/0.16.9/katex.min.css')ad−bcad-bcad−bc﻿ is called the determinant of @import url('https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/KaTeX/0.16.9/katex.min.css')AAA﻿, and we write det @import url('https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/KaTeX/0.16.9/katex.min.css')A=ad−bcA = ad-bcA=ad−bc﻿  

So, $A$﻿ can only be invertible if and only if det $A\neq0$﻿.

==**Theorem:**== if $A$﻿ is an invertible $n$﻿ x $n$﻿ matrix, then for each $b$﻿ in $\mathbb{R}^n$﻿, the equation $Ax=b$﻿ has the unique solution $x=A^{-1}b$﻿.

### Properties of Inverse

1. If $A $﻿ is an invertible matrix, then so is $A^{-1}$﻿ and $(A^{-1})^{-1} = A$﻿.
2. For $n$﻿ x $n$﻿ invertible matrices $A$﻿, $B$﻿, the matrix $AB$﻿ is invertible with $(AB)^{-1} = B^{-1} A^{-1}$﻿
3. If $A$﻿ is invertible then so is $A^T$﻿, and $(A^T)^{-1} = (A^{-1})^T$﻿.

==Example:==

Let $A=\begin{bmatrix}$﻿.

Find $A^{-1}$﻿, if it exists.

$\left[$﻿  
  
$rref(A)=$﻿

  

================Example:================

Find the inverse for $A=\begin{bmatrix}$﻿, if it exists.

$\left[$﻿

$rref(A) = \left[$﻿

### Elementary Matrices

==An== ==$n$==﻿ ==x== ==$n$==﻿ ==matrix== ==$E$==﻿ ==is an== ==elementary matrix== ==if it is the result of performing a single row operation on== ==$I_n$==﻿

Example:

==$A = \begin{bmatrix}$==﻿==is elementary because multiplying the 1st row of== ==$I$==﻿ ==by 3 gives== ==$A$==﻿==.==

==  
  
====$B =$==﻿==is== ==not== ==elementary.==

  

==================$C = \begin{bmatrix}0&1\\1&0\end{bmatrix}$==================﻿==================is elementary.==================

  

==================$D = \begin{bmatrix}1&0\\2&1\end{bmatrix}$==================﻿==================is elementary.==================

  

Multiplying by an elementary matrix performs a row operation.

==Example:==

$\begin{bmatrix}1 & 0 \\ 2 & 1\end{bmatrix} \times \begin{bmatrix}2 & 3 \\ -1 & 5\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix}2 & 3 \\ 3 & 11\end{bmatrix}$﻿

$\begin{bmatrix}2 & 3 \\ -1 & 5\end{bmatrix} \ \to R_2+2R_1 \begin{bmatrix}2 & 3 \\ 3 & 11\end{bmatrix}$﻿

  

It’s easy to find the inverse of an elementary matrix.

==Example:==

$\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 2 & 1 \end{bmatrix}^{-1} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ -2 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$﻿

$\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 2 & 1 \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ -2 & 1 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$﻿

$\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ -2 & 1 \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 2 & 1 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$﻿

  

==**Theorem:**== **$n\times n$**﻿ **$A$**﻿ is invertible if and only if $rref(A) = I_n$﻿.

If $A $﻿ is invertible, the same sequence of row operations that transforms $A$﻿ into $I_n$﻿ will transform $I_n$﻿ into $A^{-1}$﻿.

==**Proof:**== Let $A$﻿ be an $n \times n$﻿ matrix. First, assume $A$﻿ is invertible. Then $A \vec{x}=\vec{b}$﻿ has a solution for every $\vec{b}$﻿ in $\mathbb{R}^n$﻿. (Solution is $\vec{x}=A^{-1}\vec{b}$﻿)

Therefore, there is a pivot in every row. This means $A$﻿ has $n$﻿ pivot positions, thus $A\approx I_n$﻿.

Conversely, assume that $A \approx I_n$﻿. Then there are elementary matrices $E_1, E_2, ..., E_p$﻿ such that $A\approx E_1, A\approx E_2, ... A$﻿ … I don’t care to finish typing out this proof. I will never come back and read it lol.